[MRG] JOSS Paper (#653)
jonescompneurolab/hnn-core: paper.md

```python
from hnn_core import jones_2009_model, simulate_dipole
net = jones_2009_model() # Create network model
weights_ampa = {'L2_basket': 0.09, 'L2_pyramidal': 0.02, 
                'L5_basket': 0.2, 'L5_pyramidal': 8e-3}
synaptic_delays = {'L2_basket': 0.1, 'L2_pyramidal': 0.1,
                   'L5_basket': 1.0, 'L5_pyramidal': 1.0}
# Add inputs to drive activity in the network
net.add_evoked_drive(name='evprox1', mu=26.61, sigma=2.47, numspikes=1,
                     weights_ampa=weights_ampa, location='proximal',
                     synaptic_delays=synaptic_delays)
# Simulate and plot electrical current dipole
dpl = simulate_dipole(net, tstop=170.0, dt=0.025)
dpl[0].plot()
```

> ** ADD CODE AND PLOTS HERE **

Reviewer: I can't remember, did we decide to add a plot here?

---

> title: 'HNN-core: A Python software for cellular and circuit-level interpretation of human MEG/EEG data'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'HNN-core: A Python software for cellular and circuit-level interpretation of human MEG/EEG'
```
Based on our meeting today....

# HNN-core implements a biophysically detailed model to interpret MEG/EEG primary current sources

> MEG/EEG are the leading methods to non-invasively study the human brain with millisecond resolution. They have been applied as biomarkers for healthy and pathological brain processes. Yet, historically the underlying cellular and circuit level generators of MEG/EEG signals have been difficult to infer. This cell and circuit level understanding is critical to develop theories of information processing based on these signals, or to use these techniques to develop new therapeutics for neuropathology. Computational neural modeling is a powerful technique to hypothesize the neural origin of these signals and several modeling frameworks have been developed. Since MEG/EEG recordings are dominated by neocortex, all models are based on simulating neocortical activity, however they widely vary in the level of biophysical details. One class of models known as neural mass models (NMMs) uses simplified representations to simulate net population dynamics, where hypothesized connectivity among neural “nodes” can be inferred from recordings. The Virtual Brain Project [@sanz2013virtual] and Dynamic Causal Modeling from the SPM software [@friston2003dynamic; @litvak2011eeg] are prominent examples of software that implement NMMs. While NMMs are computationally tractable and advantageous for studying brain-wide interactions, they do not provide detailed interpretation of cell and circuit level phenomena underlying MEG/EEG generation. The primary electrical currents that create MEG/EEG sensor signals are known to come from the intracellular current flow and long and spatially aligned cortical pyramidal neuron dendrites [@hamalainen1993magnetoencephalography]. These currents, known as primary current dipoles, produce extracellular electrical and magnetic fields that are picked up outside of the head with MEG/EEG sensors (for a detailed discussion see @neymotin2020human). Further, source localization methods such as MNE-Python estimate the primary electrical currents. As such, models created to study the cell and circuit origin of these signals are designed with detailed pyramidal neuron morphology and physiology, and are often embedded in a full neocortical column model. HNN is one such detailed neocortical column model [@neymotin2020human], and other examples have been employed using the software LFPy [@linden2014lfpy]. A unique feature of HNN is its workflows for interacting with the template neocortical model through layer specific activations to study ERPs and low frequency brain rhythms. HNN also enables direct comparison between simulation output and source localized data in equal units of measure and supports parameter inference. HNN-core was created to maintain all of the functionality of the original HNN software with additional utility (described below) and a clean, well-tested and documented application programming interface (API). Its adoption of open source development standards, including a simplified installation procedure, unit tests, automatic documentation builds, code coverage, and continuous integration enables community development and long term sustainability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MEG/EEG are the leading methods to non-invasively study the human brain with millisecond resolution. They have been applied as biomarkers for healthy and pathological brain processes. Yet, historically the underlying cellular and circuit level generators of MEG/EEG signals have been difficult to infer. This cell and circuit level understanding is critical to develop theories of information processing based on these signals, or to use these techniques to develop new therapeutics for neuropathology. Computational neural modeling is a powerful technique to hypothesize the neural origin of these signals and several modeling frameworks have been developed. Since MEG/EEG recordings are dominated by neocortex, all models are based on simulating neocortical activity, however they widely vary in the level of biophysical details. One class of models known as neural mass models (NMMs) uses simplified representations to simulate net population dynamics, where hypothesized connectivity among neural “nodes” can be inferred from recordings. The Virtual Brain Project [@sanz2013virtual] and Dynamic Causal Modeling from the SPM software [@friston2003dynamic; @litvak2011eeg] are prominent examples of software that implement NMMs. While NMMs are computationally tractable and advantageous for studying brain-wide interactions, they do not provide detailed interpretation of cell and circuit level phenomena underlying MEG/EEG generation. The primary electrical currents that create MEG/EEG sensor signals are known to come from the intracellular current flow through long and spatially aligned cortical pyramidal neuron dendrites [@hamalainen1993magnetoencephalography]. These currents, known as primary current dipoles, produce extracellular electrical and magnetic fields that are picked up outside of the head with MEG/EEG sensors (for a detailed discussion see @neymotin2020human). Further, source localization methods such as MNE-Python estimate the primary electrical currents. As such, models created to study the cell and circuit origin of these signals are designed with detailed pyramidal neuron morphology and physiology, and are often embedded in a full neocortical column model. HNN is one such detailed neocortical column model [@neymotin2020human], and other examples have been employed using the software LFPy [@linden2014lfpy]. A unique feature of HNN is its workflows for interacting with the template neocortical model through layer specific activations to study ERPs and low frequency brain rhythms. HNN also enables direct comparison between simulation output and source localized data in equal units of measure and supports parameter inference. HNN-core was created to maintain all of the functionality of the original HNN software with additional utility (described below) and a clean, well-tested and documented application programming interface (API). Its adoption of open source development standards, including a simplified installation procedure, unit tests, automatic documentation builds, code coverage, and continuous integration, enables community development and long term sustainability.
```
Two nitpicks (using the line numbers in the compiled pdf rather than the markdown version):

- L71: "flow __through__ long and spatially aligned..."
- L87: add comma between "integration" and "enables" because this delineates the end of a prepositional phrase.

# HNN-core facilitates reproducibility and computationally expensive workflows

> The HNN GUI and its corresponding tutorials are beneficial for novice users to learn how to interact with the neocortical model to study the multiscale origin of source localized MEG/EEG signal. The interactive GUI allows users to quickly visualize how changes in parameters impact the simulated current dipole along with simultaneous changes in layer specific cell activity to test hypotheses on the mechanistic origins of recorded MEG/EEG waveforms. While the GUI is advantageous for learning how to study the multiscale origin of MEG/EEG sources, its functionality is limited as it only enables manipulation of a subset of GUI exposed parameters. Scripting in HNN-core greatly expands the software utility particularly for large research projects where reproducibility and batch processing is of key importance. The scripted interface allows multi-trial simulations enabling the use of computationally expensive parameter optimization algorithms and parameter sweeps using parallel processing on computer clusters. HNN scripting also facilitates the creation of publication-quality figures and advanced statistical analysis. Further, the software can be integrated with existing scripted workflows, such as those developed in MNE-Python [@gramfort2013meg], a well-established source localization software, enabling source localization and circuit interpretation in just a few lines of code (see tutorial in the HNN-core documentation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HNN GUI and its corresponding tutorials are beneficial for novice users to learn how to interact with the neocortical model to study the multiscale origin of source localized MEG/EEG signals. The interactive GUI allows users to quickly visualize how changes in parameters impact the simulated current dipole along with simultaneous changes in layer specific cell activity to test hypotheses on the mechanistic origins of recorded MEG/EEG waveforms. While the GUI is advantageous for learning how to study the multiscale origin of MEG/EEG sources, its functionality is limited as it only enables manipulation of a subset of GUI exposed parameters. Scripting in HNN-core greatly expands the software utility particularly for large research projects where reproducibility and batch processing is of key importance. The scripted interface allows multi-trial simulations enabling the use of computationally expensive parameter optimization algorithms and parameter sweeps using parallel processing on computer clusters. HNN scripting also facilitates the creation of publication-quality figures and advanced statistical analysis. Further, the software can be integrated with existing scripted workflows, such as those developed in MNE-Python [@gramfort2013meg], a well-established source localization software, enabling source localization and circuit interpretation in just a few lines of code (see a tutorial of this in the HNN-core documentation).
```

- L93: "signal" should be plural
- L106: "a tutorial of this in the HNN-core documentation..."

# Notable features of HNN-core 

> HNN-core code enables the creation of a new and improved web-based GUI based on ipywidgets and voila that can be run remotely with port forwarding. HNN-core functionality also supports advanced simulations through scripting that are not currently possible in the GUI including:

Author: good suggestion, yes we can add their references

> HNN-core code enables the creation of a new and improved web-based GUI based on ipywidgets and voila that can be run remotely with port forwarding. HNN-core functionality also supports advanced simulations through scripting that are not currently possible in the GUI including:

Reviewer: @ntolley did we ever get to the bottom of this?

> HNN-core code enables the creation of a new and improved web-based GUI based on ipywidgets and voila that can be run remotely with port forwarding. HNN-core functionality also supports advanced simulations through scripting that are not currently possible in the GUI including:

Author: ah thanks for reminding me! I found a forum post on a recommended .bib entry. Neither of these packages have a preferred way to be referenced.

- The ability to record extracellular local field potentials from user defined positions, as well as voltages and synaptic currents from any compartment in the model
- The ability to modify all features of the morphology and biophysical properties of any cell in the network
- An API that enables complete control of cell-cell and drive-cell connectivity in the network
- An API that allows for flexibility in defining the exogenous layer specific drive to the neocortical network

> - The ability to choose from multiple template models based on previous publications (`jones_2009_model()`{.python} [@jones2009quantitative], `law_2021_model()`{.python} [@law2022thalamocortical], `calcium_model()`{.python} [@kohl2022neural])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The ability to choose from multiple template models based on previous publications (e.g., `jones_2009_model()`{.python} [@jones2009quantitative], `law_2021_model()`{.python} [@law2022thalamocortical], and `calcium_model()`{.python} [@kohl2022neural])
```

- Built-in ERP optimization functionality designed for faster convergence 
- The choice of two parallel backends for either parallelizing across cells to speed up individual simulations (MPI), or across trials to speed up batches of simulations (joblib)

All of the code associated with HNN-core has been extensively documented at multiple levels,  including an API describing basic functions/parameters and examples of  use for hypothesis generation and/or testing. Specifically, we distribute tutorials that mimic the original GUI tutorial workflows for simulating ERPs and low frequency rhythms using HNN-core functions, with commentary on the known biophysical mechanisms of these signals. We also provide short and targeted “How to” examples that describe how to use specific functionality, such as plotting firing rates, or recording extracellular LFPs. 

# Quick example code of running a simulation

> HNN-core has minimal dependencies which allows for effortless installation using the pip Python installer. In addition to numpy, scipy and matplotlib common in most libraries in the scientific Python stack, HNN-core uses Neuron for the cell and circuit modeling. Here, we demonstrate how the HNN-core interface can be used to quickly simulate and plot the net cortical dipole response to a brief exogenously evoked drive representing “feedforward” thalamocortical input. This input  (referred to as ‘evprox1’) effectively targets the proximal dendrites of the pyramidal neurons in L2/3 and L5, using the template neocortical model as in @jones2009quantitative.

Reviewer: Same here, is there a standard for how python library names should be formatted?
